Let's take a look at the homework
that you guys can essentially do.
So if we go to
08-setup-configuration-directory,
we've already had this concept of locals,
and
we've got workspaces and
projects and stuff like that.
And that's really nice, but
it gets to a point where it
becomes really unmanageable.
And we've talked about inputs, which is
something that is done through variables,
but we haven't talked about something
which is called outputs, right?
If we go to Terraform Cloud
really quickly,
You'll see that my workspaces
provide me with inputs, right?
But say if I go to terraform-tfe, you'll
also see that there are outputs here.
Now there's none right now, but
let's think about this from
a programming perspective for a second.
We just wrote a whole bunch of code,
and we also made it so
that it's configurable, right?
What if we could pull variables not
just from the workspaces themselves,
but from other workspaces.
Like say, for example,
what if I said, I wanna make this
a little bit more complicated,
and I actually wanna make it so
my networks follow the same
pattern as other things.
And so then I say, all right, well,
I'm gonna create another locals file.
And this will be all of my
infrastructure configuration.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go to our workspace_aws file.
Now you might say, why are we going
from locals to workspace_aws?
Because we're gonna add more logic.
It's a little complex, but the TL;DR is
it's just a big for loop on our networks.
So in the same way that we're doing for
loops in other places, I can do for
loops on our networks.
And so then later on,
if I wanna create more networks,
I don't have to do copy-paste,
even on the whole workspace level.
I've now abstracted workspaces
into their own dynamic code.
So that now I can say, all right, well,
if I wanna mess with infrastructure stuff,
then I can just add a new network.
So if I was to say, all right, I want to
add another network, in the old scenario,
I'd have to copy that whole
workspace code, paste it,
and then put in my changes.
But in this scenario,
I don't have to do that.
All I have to do is paste it like that,
commit and push, and
now I have a whole new network.
Same thing for the cluster, right?
So another thing that you can do
with this, which is really awesome,
is you can actually create what we
talk about in DevOps for developers.
So be sure to check out the DevOps for
developers course.
We create our own service directory,
and that's in local_service.
And I want you to stew on this for
just a second.
The goal here is to make it so
that developers,
if they want to configure their services,
they only have to go to their
service repository or terraform-tfe.
That's it.
And this is how it works at Hippo.
We have a main repository that has
this configuration inside of it, so
that developers can go to
that repository and copy and
paste a couple of lines of code,
put in their variables that they need.
And then we have pipelines get
triggered downstream, right?
So terraform-tfe gets applied and
saved, and
the moment that's done,
we then say okay, well, let's do this.
Let's go to our service repository, for
example, so let's go to that example repo.
And again, this is homework for you guys.
And let's go to the last
branch in that repo, 08.
If we go here, looks pretty similar,
except for look at what we've got here.
We have a data file, or a data resource.
This data resource, look at
the workspace it's looking at, eci-tfe.
So what's going on right now, right?
What we're doing is we're making it so
that the developers have
to touch less things.
And we're saying, hey, Devs,
all the stuff you care about,
it's in our configuration domain-specific
language in terraform-tfe.
Just go there and we'll make sure that
the pipelines downstream get triggered.
You don't have to worry about if it's a
cluster or if it's network or what's got,
just we'll take care of that, put your
configuration in your repository, right?
And so once this is added to
the terraform-product-service repository,
what we can do then is we can then use
more logic to create all of our services.
And so this is a fun little for loop,
where if you look at this long
[LAUGH] value right here,
you can kind of consider this
as an import in your code.
But it's actually an API call
request made to the other workspace.
So that it will check and see, okay,
any non-sensitive values named services,
which we said,
oop, sorry, which we said,
if we go back to our,
GitHub, f4, sorry, two seconds, tfe,
and then we go to outputs.
This file is what makes it so
that other workspaces can then
see those outputs, right?
So if we think about the whole flow,
a developer comes to tfe, right?
Adds their service to local_service,
right?
And that's it.
They walk away.
They commit, all of the downstream
automation gets triggered.
That's it.
The developer doesn't have to ask,
did product service run, or
did anything else run?
No, because we only make sure you
care about just the one thing, right?
If it doesn't get out in a matter of time,
hit us up, let us know,
we'll help you, right?
But it removes the need for developers
to have to touch as many things.
And so again, if we look back at our
eci-terraform-product-service example,
we have service here, right?
And then, the other thing that
we do is we just go to main and
then we wrap this in a for loop.
And that's it.
Now, whenever a product service is
updated, it will go out to tfe-workspace,
download the data, and recognize if
there are any new services or not.
If there are, it will add them to the for
loop and create those new services.
If there aren't, it will delete any ones
that aren't in that for loop, right?
This is service directory configuration.
This enables you to have your
configuration at a very high level and
then let it slowly go downstream, right?
So that anything, okay, Google,
okay, Amazon, okay, Azure,
developers don't have to care
about that anymore, right?
Because it's just being brought
into the automation for them and
the only thing that they have to worry
about is the configuration inside
of the service directory.
And that my friends is enterprise
cloud infrastructure in its fullest.
Completely dynamic, completely
modularized, with its own separate
updating life cycles,
its own separate approval and policies,
as well as the complete control over
where and when you wanna update things.
So I appreciate you guys watching.
Thank you so much.
Be sure to check out the repos.
If you ever have any questions or
anything like that,
you're more than welcome to watch me or
check me out on YouTube.
I'm sorry, on Twitch.
[LAUGH] But thank you guys so much for
being here, I appreciate it, and
that is the course.
>> [APPLAUSE]